slow boot

When Command Prompt is loaded, type this command:
chkdsk C: /r
Where C: is the letter of the drive where your Windows Vista or Windows 7 is installed.

Press Enter
Type:
sfc /scannow
Press Enter
Type:
exit
Press Enter
Restart your computer




Fix #2: Disable startup applications
If the slow booting is caused by a startup software application or service, you can troubleshoot the exact application causing this by disabling each application with the help of the msconfig utility.

If, after removing/disabling a specific software application, your computer begins to boot correctly and not slow as it was, the issue can be from that software application. Try to update it to the latest available version.

To run msconfig, follow these steps:

Boot into your system
Click Start
Click Run
Type:
msconfig
Press Enter or click OK
Go to the Startup or Services tab
Disable all services listed in this tab
Click OK
Click Restart
Restart the computer




Fix #3: Delete temporary files
For more information how to delete temporary files, read this guide.

Large volumes of temporary files (stored in the specific %temp% folder on Windows) may slow down your computer, including the booting process.

To delete the temporary files on your computer, follow these steps:

Start your computer
Click Start
Click Run
Type:
%temp%
Press Enter or click OK
Go to Folder Options (Tools > Folder Options for Windows XP; Organize or Tools > Folder Options for Windows Vista or 7)
Go to View
At the Hidden files and folders section, check the Show hidden files, folders, or drive checkbox
Click OK
Select all files and folders from the Temporary folder
Right-click and click Delete
Click Yes to confirm the deletion of these files and folders



Fix #4: Defragment HDD
Having a fragmented hard-disk might slow your computer and how it boots.

Using the Disk Defragmenter utility from Windows, you can rearrange the fragmentation of your hard-disk to make it run more efficiently.

To defragment your hard-disk, follow these steps:

Start your computer and boot into Windows
Click Start
Search for Disk Defragmenter
At the Current Status section, select the disk you want to defragment. If you have multiple disks listed, defragment all disks.
Click Defragment disk






